:: House Rules ::


Heighten Spell:
	Heighten spell is not a feat. All spellcasters can innately heighten spells by preparing (in the case of casters that prepare) or casting (in the case of spontaneous casters) them in a higher-level spell slot. Any feat with Heighten Spell as an explicit prerequisite loses that prerequisite.


Leveling Up:
	Unless otherwise specified, gaining a character level takes 80 in-game hours of training. Nor more than 8 hours of training can be gained per in-game day. (10 days at 8 hours/day)
	As a matter of practicality for acquiring class features over the course of this training period (which could be conducted/interspersed as a character continues to adventure), characters can mirror the structure of leveling up that appears in the PHB (pgs. 58-59). That is, a character chooses a class at the end of the first day of training, increases their Base Attack Bonus at the end of the second day of training, increases their Base Save Bonuses at the end of the third, increases their Ability Scores at the end of the fourth, gain additional Hit Points at the end of the fifth, spends new skill points at the end of the sixth, acquires new feats at the end of the 7th, gains access to more spells per day and increases their caster level at the end of the 8th, gains new class features at the end of the 9th, and makes any other changes and is otherwise considered entirely their new level at the end of 10th.


Ability Score Increases:
	Instead of increasing one ability score by a single point every 4 levels, player characters increase two different ability scores each by one point.


Hit Points:
	When gaining hit points at a level above 1st, a player may either roll the die or take average, at their option. If average is taken, the half a hit point is retained and rounded down when appropriate, such that a player character choosing only the latter option (you may mix and match, if you want) would gain an additional hit point every 2 levels.
	This same choice applies to a player character's minion, campanion, or familiar that may also gain hit dice as the character gains levels. In this case, the choice and result remains if the character gains a replacement companion of the same creature (so a druid choosing to roll for the hit dice of her wolf companion would use those same rolls for all subsequent wolf companions, if her first should perish).


Death and Dying (from Unearthed Arcana):
	Characters cannot be reduced to negative hit points, 0 is the minimum. There is no automatic hit point total at which a character dies. Instead, any character who takes damage that reduces their hit points to 0 must make a Fortitude save to avoid falling unconscious or dying.
	When a character’s hit points are reduced to 0, they must attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10, +2 per 10 points of damage dealt by the attack or effect). Success means the character is disabled; failure indicates that they are dying. Failure by 10 or more means the character is dead. (If the character rolls a natural 1, they are dying. Calculate the numeric result; if they missed the DC by 10 or more, they are dead.)
	The possible results of the save are as follows.
	Disabled: A disabled character is conscious, but can only take a single move or standard action each turn (but not both, nor can they take full-round actions). They move at half speed. Taking move actions doesn’t risk further injury, but if a disabled character takes any standard action (or any other action the DM deems strenuous, including swift actions such as casting a quickened spell), they must succeed on a Fortitude save (against the same DC as the save made when reduced to 0 hit points) to remain disabled; otherwise, they become dying after they complete the action. If a disabled character takes any lethal damage, they must make a new Fortitude save (DC 10, +2 per 10 points of damage dealt by the attack or effect), but any result other than dead means the character is now dying. A disabled character who is dealt (or who is currently suffering from) any nonlethal damage becomes unconscious (since the character’s nonlethal damage now exceeds their hit points) but does not begin dying.
	Dying: A dying character is unconscious and near death. Each round on his turn, a dying character must make a Fortitude save (DC 10, +1 per turn after the first) to become stable. If the character fails the save, they die.
	If the character succeeds on the save by less than 5, they do not die but do not improve. They are still dying and must continue to make Fortitude saves every round.
	If the character succeeds on the save by 5 or more but by less than 10, they become stable but remain unconscious.
	If the character succeeds on the save by 10 or more, they become conscious and disabled.
	Another character can make a dying character stable by succeeding on a DC 15 Heal check as a standard action (which provokes attacks of opportunity).
	Stable: A stable character is unconscious. Every hour, a stable character must succeed on a Fortitude save (DC 10, +1 per hour after the first) to remain stable.
	If the character fails the save, they become dying.
	If the character succeeds on the save by less than 5, they do not get any worse, but do not improve. They are still stable and unconscious, and must continue to make Fortitude saves every hour.
	If the character succeeds on the save by 5 or more, they become conscious and have 1 hit point.
	Another character can grant a stable character a +2 bonus on their Fortitude save to remain stable by tending to them for at least 10 minutes during the hour between saves and by making a DC 15 Heal check.
	Dead: A dead character’s soul immediately departs their body.

Resurrection:
	Most effects that revive a character from the grave (the exception being 'true resurrection') incur a penalty of a lost level upon resurrection. This stipulation is removed. Instead, a revived character simply loses 250 xp per character level they possess. If a character has insufficiently much xp remaining, they cannot be raised.


Feat Retraining:
	A player may retrain any feat they possesse as part of gaining a level, provided: 1. The player replaces that feat with one they could have taken at the level they took the one they are replacing. 2. The feat to be replaced is not the prerequisite for another character option. 3. The feat does not provide a one-time bonus or otherwise cannot be reasonably reversed (such as Leadership).


Combat Expertise:
	The feats Improved Combat Expertise or Superior Combat Expertise have been eliminated. Instead, the Combat Expertise feat has no limit to the dodge bonus you can gain aside from your Base Attack Bonus. A new entry is included elsewhere in the library.


Toughness:
	The feat Improved Toughness has been eliminated. Instead, the toughness feat grants +1 hit point per hit die, but may only be taken once. A new entry is included elsewhere in the library.


Cleric Spontaneous Casting:
	Clerics who channel positive energy can spontaneously cast all spells with the healing descriptor, not just 'cure' spells.


Darkness:
	The spell 'darkness' and its derivatives produce actual darkness, not shadowy illumination. They therefore provide total concealment.


Elementals:
	A number of changes to elementals have been made to support a fuller elemental themes for some of my settings.
	Firstly, for relevant settings, the concepts of 'positive energy' and 'negative energy' have primarily been eliminated. They are instead merely aspects of the new elements of 'Light' and 'Dark'. Nevertheless, creatures that use positive and negative energy still function as they had previously. (Undead are harmed by positive energy, etc.) This change usually accompanies a reflavoring or recontextualization of the planes as well. To some extent, celestial and infernal creatures, which have the Outsider type, can be considered as the "genie" of the planes of Light and Dark, much the same as efreet are fire genie.
	Additionally, the elemental languages are all rooted in a common Primordial. They all share the Primordial script and mirror some of the basic structure. True (or High) Primordial is essentially never spoken (narratively, then it can serve a wide range of roles). However, Primordial has six primary dialects corresponding to the six elements (Terran, Auran, Ignan, Aquan, Luman, Noctan), with further regional dialects that may correspond to paraelements, etc. Celestial and Infernal/Abyssal may be replaced by Luman and Noctan, as appropriate. The dialects are not mutually intelligible, and from a rules perspective are treated as separate languages.
	In settings that use my elemental cosmology and pantheon, the alignment of basic elemental creatures (such as earth elementals or light elementals) is changed to be that of the corresponding emperor or lord (see the setting details for Godai).
	Lastly, there are a number of minor changes to the abilities for the basic elementals, detailed below.
	Air Elementals:
		Air Mastery (Ex):
			An air elemental receives a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against airborne (flying) creatures.
	Earth Elementals:
		Earth Mastery (Ex):
			An earth elemental receives a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against creatures touching the ground.
	Fire Elementals:
		Fire Mastery (Ex): [new]
			A fire elemental receives a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against creatures on fire (e.g. from its burn ability).
	Water Elementals:
		Water Mastery (Ex):
			A water elemental receives a +1 bonus on attack and damage rolls against waterborne (swimming) creatures.
		Vortex (Su):
			As description, except that a water elemental need not be in water to transform into a vortex. If not waterborne, however, the maximum height and width of the vortex are each reduced by half. It kicks up dust as normal (i.e. like the air elementals' whirlwind).


Native Subtype:
	In addition to the other properties of the native subtype for outsiders, a native outsider does not receive any weapons proficiencies as a result of their type.


Tower Shields:
	There are many clarifications and expansions of the rules for tower shields in the FAQs, which are largely a result of treating the tower shield as a piece of terrain. As a clarification of my own: If you are wielding two (or more) tower shields simultaneously, you can claim cover from each of them on your own with a single standard action (thereby providing protection over multiple edges of your space).


Homunculus Subtype:
	As a clarifying detail, I have added a homunculus subtype for construct creatures. See below.
	Homunculi are constructs that are irrevocably linked to their creators. They are constructed and designed to carry out specific tasks and are effective tools for magical artisans.
	Homunculi are extensions of their creators, and as such always share their alignment and same basic nature. Additionally, unlike many constructs, homunculi are intelligent creatures.
	Homunculi usually cannot speak, but they are linked telepathically with their creators. A homunculus knows what its master knows and convey to them everything it sees or hears out to a distance of 1500 feet. A homunculus never travels beyond this range willingly, though it can be removed forcibly. If this occurs, the creature does everything in its power to regain contact with its master.
	An attack that destroys a homunculus deals 2d10 points of damage to its master, and if its master is slain, the homunculus also dies.


Infusions:
	Alchemists, arcanists, and armorers use infusions. Though they are not spellcasters in the usual way, but they do have the ability to replicate spell effects by imbuing them into items, essentially creating temporary magic items that they can employ. They do so through infusions. Infusions function just like spells, and they follow the rules of spells. For example, they can be dispelled or counterspelled, they don't function in an antimagic area, and a character must make a Concentration check if injured while imbuing one. Additionally, the magic of infusions is arcane in nature. Infusions can be viewed as a special class of spells, but since all infusions share some common characteristics and deliver their spell effects in an atypical way, it is more useful to describe these common mechanics than to reiterate them for each infusion individually. Indeed, many infusion produce effects directly analogous to existing spells and differ only in the delivery of that effect.
	While spells may target one or more creatures, allow you to make an attack, or create some instantaneous or persistent effect in an area, all infusions are imbued into an item or construct and produce a persistent effect that effectively turns that object temporarily into a magic item which delivers the spell effect associated with the infusion. The nature of this delivery varies between the classes. Alchemists imbue spell effects to create temporary brewed items, which grant their spell effects as those brewed items normally would; arcanists use virgery, imbuing spell effects into wands and similar items from which the spells can subsequently be cast; and armorers imbue spell effects to create magical arms, armor, or other items, whose spell effects either modify the item or construct, emanate out from it, or are granted to the item's bearer.
	However, there are rules common amongst all classes. For all infusions, once imbued, the source of the produced effect is the item. These items can be employed by other characters. For example, an armorer may imbue an item worn by their ally with the infusion 'bull's strength' (which is directly analogous to the spell of the same name). The item then functions similarly to a belt of giant strength for the duration of the infusion, granting their ally a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength. As another example, an alchemist may create a temporary potion, imbuing it with the spell 'cure light wounds'. The created potion thus works the same as a potion of 'cure light wounds' would.
	Imbuing an infusion requires one minute with the item, construct, or materials necessary and is otherwise similar to casting a spell. Unlike most spells, though, once imbued, the infusion does not produce its effect immediately. Instead, the item stores the spell effect within itself until the infusion is activated or until you receive a new daily allotment of infusions, at which point the magic of all extant infusions fades away. All decisions needed for infusions (for example, which special weapon ability is granted by the 'personal weapon augmentation' infusion) are made when they are imbued. The entries for each class detail more comprehensively how each uses and activates infusions.


Infusions and Activating Magic Items:
	Ordinarily, a character must, for example, know a spell to be able to cast it from a spell completion item (i.e. a scroll), have it on their spell list to activate a spell trigger item (e.g. a wand), or have it prepared/available to cast (depending on whether they prepare spell) to flavor a universal potion with it. Infusions which have analogue spells qualify for all such purposes (so an arcanist can activate magic wands for spells that appear on their spell list and an alchemist can flavor a universal potion with the spell effect of any infusion they know).


Use Magic Device and Emulating Spell Requirements for Creating Magic Items:
	A character can emulate knowing a spell necessary for creating a magic item with a Use Magic Device check (DC 20 + spell level emulated). To craft the item, the character must still expend a spell slot of the corresponding level when doing so. If the check fails, you may retry each day over the course of crafting the item. If the time to craft the item elapses and you have not succesfully emulated the spell (or other requirement using the normal Use Magic Device rules), you must artificially extend the time needed to craft the item by as many days as is necessary. You may take 20 on this check, but it represents taking at least 20 days to craft the item.


Crafting Mundane Items:
	The rules for crafting mundane items using the Craft skills are modified. The steps to craft an item are as follows.
	1. Calculate the item's price in gold pieces.
	2. Determine the Difficulty Class of crafting the item (reference the Craft skill description).
	3. Acquire raw materials from which to craft the item, costing one-third of its price.
	4. Calculate the base crafting time of the item. This represents a standardized amount of time to complete the item: skilled craftspeople will take less than this time, while unskilled craftspeople will take more. To calculate the base time, divide the price by 15 gp, then exponentiate this ratio by .4771; this is the base crafting time in (work) weeks (for those interested, the exact power is ln(3) / ln(10); this means that an item that costs 10 times as much takes 3 times as long to craft).
	5. Craft the item over one or more intervals of time:
		a. The base crafting time of the item becomes the remaining time.
		b. Commit a period of time to spend working toward crafting the item. You may specify any period of time not in excess of the remaining time. A standard unit of time is a work week, equivalent to 56 hours of work (7 of 10 days, 8 hours each working day).
		c. Make a Craft check representing your work over this period of time. You make some progress on the item regardless of your check result, but if you fail the DC by 5 or more, you waste a proportion of the raw materials equal to the ratio of the time you committed to the base crafting time and must acquire new materials to make up the difference.
		d. Deduct the Difficulty Class from your check result, then divide this difference by 5. Exponentiate 2 by this quotient. Multiply this by the amount of time you commited to crafting the item this period to determine your earned time. If this earned time meets the remaining time, you finish the item in the time you committed. If it exceeds the remaining time, you need only spend a correspondingly smaller proportion of the time you committed (for example, if your earned time is double the remaining time, it takes only half the time you committed to actually craft the item; essentially, for every 5 by which you exceed the DC, you work twice as effectively/quick.
		e. If your earned time does not exceed the base crafting time, deduct your earned time from the remaining time. The item is partially finished. Repeat steps b-d until the item is finished.

	Artisan's tools of various calibers still provide corresponding modifiers to Craft checks (i.e. to use Craft without a penalty you need a set of tools).
	You may intersperse the time you commit to crafting among other activities. Working in units of work weeks assumes that there are three days each week that you do not work and that you spend only 8 hours each day that you do actually working.
	You may also craft multiple copies of the same item simultaneously. Treat this is a single item whose cost is the total of the costs of the individual items (this makes it more expedient then crafting them individually). The items are crafted in parallel, such that no items are finished until all items are finished. You can only craft items of the same kind that are not substantially different from each other (so, for example, using Craft (alchemy) one could make multiple uses' worth of alchemist's fire, but someone using Craft (armorsmithing) could not make multiple full plate mail suits in the same way, since they must be made to fit the wearer).
	Multiple people can collaborate on crafting an item or collection of items. Each commits their own time, makes their own check results (including to waste materials), and deducts their earned time from that remaining. In the case where people working simultaneously earn enough time to finish the item, assume they earn time at a constant rate over the time committed to determine when the total earned time equals the base crafting time.


Two-Weapon Fighting:
	The feats Perfect Two-Weapon Fighting and Greater Two-Weapon Fighting no longer exist. Instead, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting functions as Perfect Two-Weapon Fighting had. A new entry is included elsewhere in the library. Rangers are instead treated as having the Quick Draw feat instead of the Greater Two-Weapon fighting feat upon reaching 11th level.


Cleaving Attacks:
	The Cleave line of feats have been reworked to use a similar framework as two-weapon fighting. The new entries for these feats appear elsewhere in the library. Any monster that previously possessed Great Cleave but no longer meets its prerequisites is still granted it regardless. In the same manner that one can still fight with two weapons without possessing the Two-Weapon Fighting feat, creatures can now make cleaving attacks (the rules for which follow) without possessing the Cleave feat.
	When taking the full attack action, you may attempt to cleave with one (and only one) of those attacks. If you do, all attacks made as part of the full attack are made at a -6 penalty. If your cleave attack is successful, you get an immediate, extra melee attack against another creature within reach. You cannot take a 5-foot step before making this extra attack. The extra attack is made with the same weapon at an additional -6 penalty (for a total of -12). These penalties assume you attack with a one-handed weapon, and can be modified in several ways. (This incldues when you attack with a one-handed weapon using two hands; the modifiers are a function of the type of the weapon, not how it is wielded.)
	- If your weapon is light, the penalties are increased by 2 each. (An unarmed strike is always considered light.)
	- If your weapon is two-handed, the penalties are reduced by 2 each.
	- The Cleave feat lessens the penalty of the primary attack by 2 and the secondary attack by 6.
	- If your primary attack deals a creature enough damage to make it drop (typically by dropping it to below 0 hit points or killing it), the penalty on your secondary attack is reduced by 2.
A table appears below to demonstrate the intersection of these modifiers.

Table: Cleave Fighting Penalties
:: Circumstances              :: Primary Attack :: Secondary Attack (normal) :: Secondary Attack (drop) ::
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
:: Light weapon               :: -8             :: -14                       :: -12                     ::
:: Normal penalties           :: -6             :: -12                       :: -10                     ::
:: Two-handed weapon          :: -4             :: -10                       :: -8                      ::
:: Light weapon & Cleave      :: -6             :: -8                        :: -6                      ::
:: Cleave                     :: -4             :: -6                        :: -4                      ::
:: Two-handed weapon & cleave :: -2             :: -4                        :: -2                      ::


Metamagic (adapted from Unearthed Arcana):
	A spell caster does not have to prepare metamagic versions of their spells in advance (if they normally prepare spells) or spend full-round actions to cast metamagic spells (if they do not prepare spells). Metamagic spells also do not take up higher-level spell slots.
	A character who selects a metamagic feat gains three daily uses of that feat that they can opt to use without previous preparation, increased spell level, or extended casting time. The character decides when casting the spell if they wish to apply the effect of one of their metamagic feats to the spell. A caster can apply more than one metamagic feat to a spell in this way, or even the same metamagic effect more than once (if allowed by the feat's description). Correspondingly many uses are deducted from a player's uses per day.
	There is no outright maximum level of spell to which a caster can apply metamagic feats in this manner, but applying feats that produce a spell beyond their normal maximum costs additional spell slots. When a character would cast a metamagic spell, add the level of the base spell and all the spell level adjustments from the applied feats. If this number is less than or equal to the maximum spell level they are capable of casting (based on their level and ability scores), there is no additional cost to cast that spell. However, if this number exceeds their maximum spell level, they must expend a number of additional spell slots equal to the difference to "overcharge" the spell. These spell slots must be of a level greater than or equal to the level of the modified spell. If the spellcaster has insufficiently many such spell slots available, they cannot cast that spell this way. For casters that do not prepare spells, they must simply lose available spell slots as appropriate. For casters that prepare spells, these spell slots may come both from unprepared spell slots in their daily allotment and/or already prepared spells. In the latter case, they lose the prepared spells expended this way.


Siege Engines:
	Attacking with siege weapons is unified under a new framework. All siege engines are classified as siege engine weapons and require attack rolls to attack with, made by the character commanding the operation of the siege engine. Siege weapons in their standard form are designed for use by teams composed of medium creatures. Appropriately smaller or larger siege engines can be manufactured, and they follow the conventions for weapons of smaller and larger sizes. Creatures incur a cumulative -2 size penalty for each size category they differ from the siege engine when operating it. This applies to Profession (siege engineer) checks made to operate the engine and, for the commander of the team, to attack rolls with the engine.
	Each siege engine requires a number of full-round actions to prepare it for its next attack, usually also requiring one or more Profession (siege engineer) checks. These actions can be performed concurrently by those crewing the siege engine to expedite its attacks. Each siege engine has a maximum crew size; this limits the effective number of actions that can be taken concurrently in this way. A character with the Siege Engineer feat performs these actions as standard actions instead.
	Attacking with a siege engine is a full-round action, taken by the commander of the siege engine.
	Ranged Siege Engines:
		Ranged siege engines make ranged attacks, and come in two varieties: direct fire and indirect fire. These types now differ only in how their attacks are delivered to the target. Direct fire weapons shoot in low arcs and rely on direct line of sight to their target, like conventional ranged weapons. Indirect fire weapons, however, fire in high arcs and can be lobbed over walls and other obstacles, and do not need direct line of sight to their targets.
		Ranged siege engines must be aimed at their target prior to firing, which requires some number of dedicated actions on part of the crew (adjusting the angle of fire, turning it, etc.). If the target of the engine moves relative to it before it is finished aiming or after it has been aimed but before it would attack, the engine must be aimed again from the beginning. If the target has not moved relative to the siege engine since it was aimed, however, it does not need to be aimed again.
		The attack bonus for an attack made with a ranged siege weapon is its commander's Intelligence modifier plus its commander's base attack bonus plus the siege engine's base accuracy modifier (usually negative, and given in its description). A creature without the Siege Engineer feat is considered not proficient in the use of siege weapons and incurs a corresponding -4 penalty. A masterwork siege engine costs 300 gp above that of a normal siege engine of the same type and receives a +1 enhancement bonus to its accuracy modifier.
		Each ranged siege engine is given the corresponding summary statistics:
		Cost: The cost of the siege engine in gold pieces.
		Ammunition Cost: The cost of a single piece of standard ammunition.
		Damage: The damage and damage type dealt by an ordinary projectile fired by the siege weapon. Some siege engines can fire special ammunition, and the rules for these are described separately.
		Critical: The critical multiplier for attacks made with a siege weapon. Unlike traditional weapons, siege weapons are capable of making critical strikes against inanimate objects such as structures.
		Base Accuracy: The accuracy modifier of the siege engine.		
		Range Increment: The range increment of the siege weapon. If the siege weapon has a minimum range, that is stated here as well. A siege engine can fire up to 10 range increments away.
		Maximum Crew: The maximum number of crew that can concurrently act on the siege engine.
		Mount: The kind of mount used when mounted on a vehicle, either light or heavy.
		Aim Actions: The number of full-round actions required to aim the siege engine at its target prior to its attack. If zero, indicates that aiming the siege engine is a free action.
		Reload Actions: The number of full-round actions required to load a new projectile into the siege engine or otherwise prepare it to fire again. If zero, indicates that reloading the siege action is a free action or otherwise automatic.