:: Armorer ::
Starting Age: Complex
Hit Die: d8

Table: The Armorer
Level	:: BAB		:: Saves		:: Special							:: Infusions per Day				::
			:: Fort :: Ref  :: Will ::								:: 1st :: 2nd :: 3rd :: 4th :: 5th :: 6th	::
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 1st	:: +0		:: +2   :: +0   :: +2   :: Spontaneous Casting, Magical Artisan				:: 2   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 2nd	:: +1		:: +3   :: +0   :: +3   :: Homunculus Servant, Craft Wondrous Item			:: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 3rd	:: +2		:: +3   :: +1   :: +3   :: Craft Magic Arms and Armor					:: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 4th	:: +3		:: +4   :: +1   :: +4   :: Advanced Activation (1 infusion)				:: 3   :: 2   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 5th	:: +3		:: +4   :: +1   :: +4   :: Craft Construct						:: 3   :: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 6th	:: +4		:: +5   :: +2   :: +5   :: Transfer Infusion						:: 4   :: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 7th	:: +5		:: +5   :: +2   :: +5   :: 								:: 4   :: 3   :: 2   :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 8th	:: +6/+1	:: +6   :: +2   :: +6   :: Advanced Activation (60 feet)				:: 4   :: 3   :: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 9th	:: +6/+1	:: +6   :: +3   :: +6   :: Rapid Infusion, Craft Rod					:: 4   :: 4   :: 3   :: --  :: --  :: --	::
 10th	:: +7/+2	:: +7   :: +3   :: +7   :: Transfer Infusion (active)					:: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 2   :: --  :: --	::
 11th	:: +8/+3	:: +7   :: +3   :: +7   :: Mutable Augmentation						:: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 3   :: --  :: --	::
 12th	:: +9/+4	:: +8   :: +4   :: +8   :: Advanced Activation (2 infusions), Forge Ring		:: 5   :: 4   :: 4   :: 3   :: --  :: --	::
 13th	:: +9/+4	:: +8   :: +4   :: +8   :: 								:: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 2   :: --	::
 14th	:: +10/+5	:: +9   :: +4   :: +9   :: Transfer Infusion (recipient only)				:: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 3   :: --	::
 15th	:: +11/+6/+1	:: +9   :: +5   :: +9   :: Master Constructor						:: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 4   :: 3   :: --	::
 16th	:: +12/+7/+2	:: +10  :: +5   :: +10  :: Advanced Activation (allies)					:: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 2 	::
 17th	:: +12/+7/+2	:: +10  :: +5   :: +10  :: 								:: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3   :: 3 	::
 18th	:: +13+8/+3	:: +11  :: +6   :: +11  :: 								:: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 4   :: 3 	::
 19th	:: +14+9/+4	:: +11  :: +6   :: +11  :: 								:: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3 	::
 20th	:: +15/+10/+5	:: +12  :: +6   :: +12  :: Advanced Activation (3 infusions)				:: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 5   :: 4   :: 3 	::

Class Skills (4 + Int modifier per level, x4 at 1st level):
Craft (Int), Decipher Script (Int), Heal (Wis), Intimidate (Cha), Knowledge (nobility), Knowledge (history), Knowledge (arcana), Knowledge (architecture & engineering), Profession (Wis), Search (Int), Spellcraft (Int), Survival (Wis), Use Magic Device (Cha)
 
Weapon and Armor Proficiency:
An armorer is proficient with all simple and martial weapons, with light and medium armor, and with shields (but not tower shields).

Infusions:
	An armorer is not a spellcaster in the usual way, but she does have the ability to replicate spell effects by imbuing them into items. She does so through infusions. The basic rules of infusions are detailed in the house rules.
	An armorer uses infusions by imbuing spell effects into arms, armor, or most any other item, effectively creating temporary magic weapons, magic armor, and wondrous items. An armorer's infusion are imbued into an item or a construct and produce some persistent (usually beneficial) effect once activated. For example, an armorer may imbue an item worn by her ally with the infusion 'bull’s strength' (which is directly analogous to the spell of the same name). The item then functions similarly to a belt of giant strength for the duration of the infusion, granting her ally a +4 enhancement bonus to Strength. As another example, an armorer may imbue a staff she is carrying with the 'globe of invulnerability, lesser' infusion. In this case, the protective sphere produced by the effect emanates from her staff. In all cases, since the source of the effect is the item, it is transferrable inasmuch as the item can change possession. In the cases above, the item could be removed and given to another ally to wear so that they may get the Strength bonus instead, or an enemy may wrest control of the armorer’s staff from her and take it to shield his allies with the globe of invulnerability. The item an armorer imbues need not match an existing magic item. In the example of 'bull's strength' above, for example, an armorer could equally choose her ally's shoes, belt, backpack, a gemstone they are carrying in a pocket, or so on. Additionally, there is no limit to the number of infusions one item can bear, aside from the usual rules for duplicate spell effects.
	Unlike alchemists and arcanists, whose infusions are activated by using the temporary items they are imbued into in the usual manner, an armorer's infusions must be specifically activated. To activate an infusion, one must be wearing or wielding the imbued item, and usually must utter a command word set by the armorer when the infusion was imbued, a standard action that does not provoke attacks of opportunity. However, an armorer may activate her own infusions by simply mentally willing it to happen, as can someone who casts identify or a similar spell on the item to discover its properties, though this is still a standard action. An armorer can always tell which items have been imbued with one of her infusions, though she cannot automatically do so for items imbued by others. If an infusion is dismissable, its effect can be dismissed through a similar procedure as a standard action, but one must be in possession of the item to do so. Furthermore, the effect of an infusion usually cannot be suppressed; if it is dismissed, the item loses the magic, just as if a spellcaster had dismissed an active spell.
	Sometimes, an armorer's infusion will imbue multiple items (such as 'magic stone', whose magic can be imbued in up to three pebbles, or 'shield of faith, mass'). In this case, an armorer must designate one of these items to be the key item for the infusion. The infusion can be activated only by someone in possession of the key item of the infusion. When activated, the infusion provides the benefit to all items imbued. Each such infusion specifies a range away from the key item within which the imbued items must be when the infusion is activated to receive the benefit. Those items continue to benefit from the infusion even if they later leave range of the key item. You must still be in possession of all the items (i.e. they must be within reach) when imbuing the infusion in the first place. If an imbued item is outside of the range of the key item when the infusion is activated, its magic does not function. If it is later brought within range of the key item within the duration of the effect, the magic of that item activates for the remaining duration of the infusion, as the others did. If it is not brought within range of the key item during the effect, its magic is orphaned and lingers until it naturally fades away the next day. Additionally, when identify or a similar spell is used on an item imbued with an infusion spread over multiple items, it indicates that the item is part of a set of imbued items and whether it is the key item, but gives no information about the number of items in the set or whether the item examined has been orphaned.
	To use an infusion, an armorer must have an Intelligence score equal to at least 10 + the infusion level. The Difficulty Class for a saving throw against an effect produced by an armorer’s infusion is 10 + the infusion level + the armorer’s Intelligence modifier. This supercedes the rules for saving throws from magic items, as it is the infusion producing the effect. Her caster level for these effects is her armorer level. Additionally, most infusions require an armorer have a focus on hand. This focus usually takes the form of a magical tool, as might be used to craft magical items and the like.
	An armorer can only use so many infusions of each infusion level per day. She needs 8 hours of rest to regain her infusions for the day. Her base daily infusion allotment is shown in the table above. In addition, she receives bonus infusions per day if she has a high Intelligence score. The number of bonus infusions is equivalent to the number of bonus spells granted to a spellcaster for having a high ability score.
	Unlike alchemists or arcanists, all of whose infusions are derived directly from an equivalent spell, an armorer has a defined list of infusions she can use, not all of which have direct analogues. Unlike a sorcerer or bard, she does not select a subset of the available infusions as her known infusions; she has access to every infusion on the list that is of a level she can use. Additionally, like a sorcerer or bard, she need not prepare an infusion before imbuing it into an item.
	Like a spellcaster, an armorer can apply metamagic feats she knows when using an infusion. The metamagic applies to the spell effect created by the infusion, as opposed to the imbuing of the infusion itself. Imbuing an infusion in this way takes no more time than usual.
	Construct creatures have a special relationship with infusions. Since constructs are effectively animated items, infusions can often be imbued directly into them (in which case they are considered to possess or be wearing the “item”, as appropriate). Additionally, some infusions may be imbued only into constructs. An infusion will specifically state if it can be imbued into a construct.

Magical Artisan:
	An armorer gains several item creation feats as bonus feats at or near the level they become available to normal spellcasters, regardless of whether she meets the prerequisites. She gains Craft Wondrous Item at 2nd level, Craft Magic Arms and Armor at 3rd level, Craft Construct at 5th level, Craft Rod at 9th level, and Forge Ring at 12th level.
	When crafting a magic item, an armorer may use an infusion on her list that has a corresponding spell in place of that spell. For example, to craft a belt of giant's strength, an armorer can use the infusion 'bull's strength' in the same way a normal spellcaster would use the spell of the same name. For all other spells, she must emulate knowing the spell using the Use Magic Device skill or have access to another magic item that stores that spell as normal. An armorer's skill working with magic items provides her a +4 bonus to Use Magic Device checks to emulate knowing spells made in this way.

Spontaneous Casting (Sp):
	An armorer can channel stored energy from infusions into energy she uses to transmute the structure of construct creatures. She can “lose” an infusion from her daily allotment in order to cast any 'repair' or 'inflict damage' spell of the same level or lower as a spell-like ability. Her caster level for this effect is her armorer level.

Homunculus Servant (Su):
	At 2nd level, an armorer gains the service of a homunculus, a simple mechanical construct imbued with her life essence. This construct is a loyal companion that accompanies the armorer on her adventures. She constructs it and maintains it herself, using the same tools she may use to imbue her infusions. She may select an arbalester, a dedicated wright, an expeditious messenger, a furtive filcher, a packmate, a persistent harrier, a (traditional) homunculus, or an iron defender. While all homunculi are tied to the life force of their creator, an armorer’s homunculus servant is especially so. This grants them a number of additional abilities over other homunculi, as detailed below.  If an armorer so wishes, she may deconstruct her homunculi servant and reassemble it into a new form. Additionally, if an armorer’s homunculus servant is destroyed, she may reconstruct one. Either case requires a ritual requiring 24 uninterrupted hours of dedicated work. If she changes the form of her homunculus, it retains its memories during the transition. If her homunculus is destroyed, however, it does not. The homunculus she crafts to replace it is a new creature.

-----
Alignment:
	A homunculus’ alignment always matches that of its master, even if it changes after the homunculus is created.

Hit Dice:
	An armorer’s homunculus servant has a number of Hit Dice equal to her armorer level. Whenever the armorer gains a level, her servant gains a Hit Die. Her servant’s statistics improve as normal for a construct, and since homunculi are intelligent, they receive additional skill points and feats as they advance. Her servant’s size grows when it acquires enough Hit Dice (as dictated by its creature entry), its statistics changing consistent with the rules outlined in the Monster Manual. A homunculus may be advanced beyond the maximum number of Hit Dice indicated in its entry in this way, though it never again grows in size.

Share Infusions:
	At her option, when an armorer activates an infusion, she may have that infusion affect her servant as though it had been imbued with it also. The servant must be within 5 feet of her at the time of activation to receive the benefit. The infusion stops affecting the servant if it ends its turn more than 5 feet away from the armorer and will not affect it again, even if it returns before the duration expires.

Evasion (Ex):
	Beginning at 3rd level, if an armorer’s homunculus servant is subjected to an attack that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, it instead takes no damage if it makes a successful saving throw.

Improved Evasion (Ex):
	Beginning at 15th level, when subjected to an attack that normally allows a Reflex saving throw for half damage, a homunculus servant takes no damage if it makes a successful saving throw and only half damage if the saving throw fails.

Multiattack:
	At 9th level, homunculus servant gains Multiattack as a bonus feat if it has three or more natural attacks and does not already have the feat. If it does not have the requisite three or more natural attacks, the servant instead gains a second attack with its primary natural weapon, albeit at a -5 penalty.

Master Constructor:
	At 15th level when an armorer gains the Master Constructor class feature, her homunculus servant automatically gains the corresponding bonuses.
-----

Craft Magic Arms and Armor:
	An armorer receives Craft Magic Arms and Armor as a bonus feat at 3rd level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites.

Advanced Activation (Su):
	Starting at 4th level, an armorer may activate (or dismiss) one of her own infusions each round as a swift action instead of a standard action. She may still use her standard action to activate another infusion.
	At 8th level, an armorer need not be in control of an item to activate its infusion. She can activate any infusions of hers within 60 feet. To do so, she must be able to see or otherwise perceive the item in some way, or at least have a very clear idea of where it is (for example, in a particular pocket of an ally’s backpack). An armorer gains no special perception of where the items she has imbued with an infusion are. She may dismiss infusions in the same way.
	At 12th level, when an armorer activates an infusion of hers as a swift action, she may activate one additional infusion. When she activates an infusion not using this ability (i.e. as a standard action), she may still only activate a single infusion.
	At 16th level, an armorer’s allies may activate her infusions as a swift action as she can. They may only activate one infusion in this way, however.
	At 20th level, an armorer may activate one additional infusion, for a total of 3.

Craft Construct:
	An armorer receives Craft Construct as a bonus feat at 5th level, even if she does not meet the prerequisites.

Transfer Infusion (Su):
	At 6th level, an armorer gains the ability transfer an infusion she has imbued into another item or construct appropriate to that infusion (for example, she cannot transfer a 'toughen construct' infusion to a sword, since a sword could not have been imbued with a 'toughen construct' infusion in the first place). Transferring an infusion in this way takes as much time as imbuing an infusion, and she must be in possession of both the item to be imbued and the item holding the infusion during this time. She may only transfer an infusion that has not yet been activated in this way. If transferring an infusion imbued across multiple items, she may transfer the infusion between as many of those items and the same number of new items as she has in her possession. In doing so, she may also change which item is the key item of the infusion; indeed, she need not transfer the infusion into any new item, and may use this feature just to change the key item of an infusion, which she could not otherwise do.
	At 10th level, an armorer may transfer her imbued infusions regardless of whether they have been activated or not. If an activated infusion is transferred in this way, its effect ceases to function on the previous item once the transfer is complete and continues to function on the new item for the remainder of its duration.
	At 14th level, an armorer need only be in possession of the item to which the infusion is being transferred. The item losing the infusion, however, must be within 60 feet of her when the transfer is completed. If it is not, she may wait until either such condition is met (effectively artificially extending the amount of time it takes to transfer the infusion) or allow the transfer to fail. 

Rapid Infusion (Su):
	At 9th level, an armorer gains the ability to imbue infusions more rapidly by spending extra magic. When she imbues an infusion, she may do so as a full round action instead of 1 minute (i.e. ten consecutive full-round actions). To hasten an infusion in this way, she must lose an unspent infusion slot of no less than one level lower than the infusion she is hastening. She cannot “lose” the magic of an infusion she has already imbued. She may also hasten transferring an infusion in the same way, but in this case, she need only lose an infusion slot no less than three levels lower than the infusion whose transfer she is hastening.

Mutable Augmentation (Su):
	At 11th level, an armorer becomes especially skilled at using her equipment augmentation infusions. When wearing armor imbued by one of her armor enhancement infusions or wielding a weapon imbued by one of her weapon augmentation infusions, an armorer may change the special ability granted by that infusion as a standard action. She may do so for both active infusions and infusions that have yet to be activated, but if the item leaves her possession (for example, to be wielded by an ally), the special ability granted reverts to that chosen when the infusion was first imbued.

Master Constructor (Ex):
	At 15th level, an armorer becomes a master at fabricating constructs. She may craft improved versions of constructs or improve existing constructs, granting a +2 inherent bonus to all of their ability scores (excepting Constitution, which constructs lack). Improving a construct in this way requires one day of work and costs 100 gp of supplies per Hit Die of the construct to be improved but has no xp cost. An armorer’s homunculus servant automatically receives these bonuses when she reaches 15th level.
