:: Brew Universal Potion ::
[Item Creation, Brewing]

Prequisites:
	Brew Potion, caster level 7th
Benefit:
	You gain the ability to create a universal potion, a potion that you can "flavor" with a particular spell at a later date. To create a universal potion, you choose the maximum spell level (1st, 2nd, or 3rd) and the maximum caster level it can hold. The maximum caster level must be sufficient to cast a spell of the universal potion's maximum spell level. You then brew the universal potion. An uncharged universal potion radiates faint magic of no school.
	Once the universal potion is brewed, a spellcaster can place any spell she knows (including spells in her spellbook, if she is a wizard) of the appropriate spell level (or lower) into the potion by shaking the flask as a move action. This "flavoring" consumes a spell slot as usual during the creation of a magic item, but does not require the casting of the spell in any way. Spellcasters that prepare spells, however, must have the chosen spell prepared. If the chosen spell has a costly material component, focus or xp cost, the material component must be expended, the focus on hand, and/or the xp cost paid at the time of activation. 
	If a spell of a lower level than the universal potion's maximum is placed into it this way, it is automatically heightened to the maximum level (as a spellcaster could normally do). When a spellcaster activates a universal potion, she sets the caster level, which must be sufficient to cast the spell in question and neither greater than her own caster level or the maximum caster level of the potion. She must also make any choices she would normally at the time of casting. The spell to be placed into the universal potion must have a casting time of 1 minute or less; it otherwise follows the normal rules for the kinds of spells that can be put into potions (despite the name of this ability, a spellcaster using a universal potion can create either a potion or an oil when she imbues the universal potion with the chosen spell).
	Upon completion of this action, the universal potion is treated as a standard potion (or oil) of the caster level chosen for the effect, and it can be used as normal.
	The base price of a universal potion is its maximum spell level x its maximum caster level x 125 gp. To brew a universal potion, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in xp and use up raw materials costing on half of the base price. Brewing a universal potion takes 1 day.