:: Brew Spellbomb ::
[Item Creation, Brewing]

Prequisites:
	Brew Potion, caster level 5th
Benefit:
	You can brew spellbombs, magical explosives that can be used as thrown weapons. Creating a spellbomb is similar to creating a potion. It stores a spell of 3rd level or lower. Unlike a potion, however, a spellbomb can contain any spell that has a point of origin and doesn't require concentration. For example, 'web', 'fireball', and 'entangle' can all be made into spellbombs, but 'hold person', 'acid arrow', and 'detect magic' cannot, because they either target a creature or object ('hold person'), produce an effect that doesn't have a definable point of origin or area ('acid arrow'), or require concentration ('detect magic'). Spells that last beyond when you would cease concentrating (like 'minor image') may still be made into spellbombs, but they only funciton for a s long as the spell would normally last after ceasing concentration (essentially, you can create spellbombs of concentration spells, but since no one maintains concentration on it, it lasts no time and therefore doesn't function). Even spells that include targeted effects (such as 'dispel magic') can be incorporated if they include an area effect as an alternative option. Only the area effect functions.
	Activating a spellbomb is a swift action. After being activated, a spellbomb is thrown as a splash weapon with a range increment of 10 ft., usually thrown at a grid intersection (AC 5); if not thrown within one round, the spellbomb deactivates and must be activated again. Spellbombs are usually contained in spherical glass or crystal containers and will detonate when the glass is broken. When the spellbomb detonates, the spell is effectively cast and produces its effect, with the point of origin of the spell being the detonation location. For areas such as cones or lines, the area is directed along the line of action of the spellbomb when it is detonated (so a caster throwing a 'spellbomb of lightning bolt' at a space 30 ft. forward in front of him will produce a 120 ft. ling line in the direction of the throw beginning from where the spellbomb detonated). Like for a potion, all decisions necessary for the spell are made at the creation of the spell bomb. This also means that the user cannot actively direct or dismiss the spell effect after it is in place (such as using a move action to direct a 'flaming sphere', calling more than the first lightning bolt from 'call lightning', or dismissing a 'web' that caught some of your allies). If the spell's area is shapeable (like 'quench' or 
'wind wall'), the behavior of the area relative to its point of origin and line of action must be specified when the spellbomb is created.
	The base price of a spellbomb is its spell level x its caster level x 100 gp. To brew a spellbomb, you must spend 1/25 of this base price in xp and use up raw materials costing one half of this base price. Brewing a spellbomb takes 1 day. Any spellbomb that stores a spell with a costly material component or an xp cost also carries a commensurate cost; in addition to the costs derived from the base price, you must expend the material component or pay the xp when creating the spellbomb.