:: Delay Spell ::
[Metamagic]

Benefit:
	When casting a spell, you delay its effect. Instead, as an action on a subsequent turn, you may activate the spell. When you do, the spell's effect manifests. You may not delay the spell more than 5 rounds in this way; if you do, the magic of the spell is lost.
	Any decisions you would make about the spell (e.g. designating targets [including for spells that require a ranged attack roll] or determining or shaping an area) are decided when the spell is cast, with any of its effects (e.g. damage, saving throws, and caster level checks to overcome spell resistance) decided when you trigger the spell. Spells with a range of touch, such as 'shocking grasp', are not effectively delayed by this feat until you successfully touch a creature (you are still holding the charge and in some ways have yet to effectively cast the spell). After doing so, the delay begins and, when activated, the spell will take effect as though the creature had just been touched.
	If conditions have changed when you activate the spell in ways that would make the spell impossible to cast (the target or area you designate moves beyond the spell's range [except for spells with a range of touch, see above], you no longer have line of effect to a target, or similar), the spell fails to a corresponding extent. For area spells, this may mean the entire spell fails. For spells that target multiple creatures, this may just mean that some of those targets are not affected.
	The delay period does not count against the duration of the spell; the spell effectively only begins after it has been activated. However, during the delay period, the spell can be detected in the area or on the target, and that spell can be dispelled correspondingly, even if that spell could not normally (e.g. for spells with an instantaneous effect like 'fireball').
	When you cast a delayed spell (for spontaneous casters) or prepare it, you decide whether it will take a swift action or a standard action to activate the spell in subsequent turns. A delayed spell that takes a standard action to activate has a spell level modifier of +1, while a delayed spell that takes a swift action to activate has a spell level modifier of +2.