:: Dragonborn (Chromatic) ::

	A semi-monstrous species of dragon, it is believed dragonborn are the result of millennia of breeding between half-dragons, eventually developing different physical traits and a distinct culture. Correspondingly, dragonborn are descended from true dragons, evident in their coloration and minor magical powers. They usually keep to themselves in secluded communities, but it is not uncommon for some to venture away from their brood to see the greater world, even though they remain feared and unwelcome in many lands.
	Physically, there is not much difference between dragonborn colorations, except that there has remained a comparatively sharp division between the chromatic and metallic. Chromatic dragonborn, described here, usually stand between 6 and 7 ft. tall and weigh an average of around 250 lb. They often travel in predatory bands of fearsome warriors.

	Dragon (dragonborn)
	+2 Strength, -2 Dexterity, - 2 Intelligence
	A chromatic dragonborn's Intelligence score is always at least 3. If this adjustment would lower a character's score to 1 or 2, their score is nevertheless 3.
	Dragonborn base speed is 30 ft.
	Medium: As medium creatures, chromatic dragonborn have no special bonuses or penalties due to their size.
	Immunity to magical sleep effects and paralysis effects.
	+2 species bonus to Survival checks
	Low-Light Vision
	Darkvision
	A chromatic dragonborn has a natural bite attack that deals 1d6 damage and two natural claw attacks that deal 1d4 damage.
	Breath Weapon (Su): Once per day, as a standard action, a chromatic dragonborn can breathe a plume of damaging energy of type and area based on its ancenstry, as indicated below. Creatures caught in the area take 2d4 damage of the appropriate type (Reflex save half). The save is Charisma-based.
	Automatic Languages: Draconic and Common
	Bonus Languages: Any
	Favored Class: Fighter
	Level Adjustment: +0

Ancestry	Damage		Shape

Black		Acid		30 ft. line
Blue		Lightning	30 ft. line
Green		Acid		15 ft. cone
Red		Fire		15 ft. cone
White		Cold		15 ft. cone