:: Zavodnoy Cannon, Heavy ::
Direct ranged siege weapon

Cost: 16,000 gp
Ammunition Cost: 10 gp
Damage: 6d10 bludgeoning
Critical: x3
Base Accuracy: -2
Range Increment: 250 ft.
Maximum Crew: 4
Mount: Heavy
Aim Actions: 0
Reload Actions: 1 shot (or 4 magazine see text)

A heavy Zavodnoy cannon is a steam-powered cannon otherwise similar to a bombard, taking up a space 10 feet across and weighing 3000 pounds.
It is mounted within a mechanical turret that provides up to 360 degrees of full rotation.
Practically, this is often mechanically limited to prevent a cannon from turning back to fire upon its own vehicle.
The cannon has a single control station from which most of its functions are commanded.
To operate, a heavy Zavodnoy cannon requires some sort of steam power source, such as a boiler; if this power source is disabled, the cannon ceases to function.

A heavy Zavodnoy cannon has three different magazines: a primary magazine that can hold up to 6 rounds, and two accessory magazines that can hold up to 2 rounds apiece.
Loading a round into the cannon from one of the magazines is a free action and requires a successful DC 15 Profession (siege engineer) check.
If one fails this check, the loading mechanism becomes jammed, requiring one full-round action and a successful DC 15 Profession (siege engineer) check to clear before proceeding.
Once a round is loaded, it takes a free action to initiate a steam charge to build up, but this charge takes one round to collect, meaning the cannon can only fire every other round.
Aiming the cannon is a free action.

Once a magazine is empty, it must be reloaded before it can be used again.
Reloading any one of the magazines requires four full-round actions:
One action to open the magazine, requiring a DC 10 Profession (siege engineer) check;
and three actions to load in the rounds (provided they are on hand), each action requiring a successful DC 10 Strength check.
While any one of the magazines is open, the cannon cannot load a new round, though it can still build up a steam charge for its next shot and fire an already loaded round.