:: Knowstone ::

	This empowered stone is typically fashioned from a semi-precious gem or mineral and is often inscribed with arcane writings. Each knowstone contains the knowledge necessary to cast a single spell. A character that bears a knowstone is effectively treated as having learned that spell, provided it is a spell they can cast (i.e. is of a level they can cast, appears on their class list, and is not otherwise forbidden, as by a school specialization). It takes one day spent with the knowstone for it to impart this knowledge, and a character must retain possession of it to continue to benefit in this way, much the way a character must spend time with an item that boosts an ability score.
	Knowstones are most useful for spellcasters that only know a limited number of spells, such as bards and sorcerers. To use a knowstone, spontaneous casters need only have it in their possession. They may cast it just as the other spells they know. For casters that prepare spells, the knowstone grants them the ability to prepare that spell when they do so. If they later lose possession of the knowstone, they may still cast that prepared spell, much the same as a wizard that loses her spellbook may still cast her prepared spells, but cannot prepare further ones. Additionally, a wizard in possession of a knowstone can inscribe the spell into her spellbook in the usual fashion.
	The price and aura of a knowstone vary based on the level of the spell. If a single spell appears at different levels for different classes, base the price on the lowest level at which it appears.
	1st, faint transmutation, CL 3rd, price 1000 gp; 2nd, faint transmutation, CL 5th, price 4000 gp; 3rd, moderate transmutation, CL 7th, price 9000 gp; 4th, moderate transmutation, CL 9th, price 16000 gp; 5th, moderate transmutation, CL 11th, price 25000 gp; 6th, strong transmutation, CL 13th, price 26000 gp; 7th, strong transmutation, CL 15th, price 49000 gp; 8th, strong transmutation, CL 17th, price 64000 gp; 9th, strong transmutation, CL 19th, price 81000 gp.